docs/guide/adze-concepts.md, before:

# Adze Concepts

Adze as a library has a couple of core goals it attempts to meet. The first goal
is to provide an API that wraps, extends, or replicates all of the functionality
of the standard [Console API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console).

The second goal of the Adze project is to give you a natural log writing experience
that doesn't feel too different from the standard. To make the experience of using Adze feel
natural, Adze provides a chainable API that is similar to the standard `console.log()` API.

## Lifecycle

Let's take a look under the hood to see how the Adze architecture enables its API.
_Please keep in mind this diagram is not exhaustive._

![Lifecycle Diagram of Adze Logs](./assets/basic-architecture.svg)

## The Log Chain

As you can see in the diagram, a log chain is made up of three parts:

- [Log Factory](factories.md)
  - This is a function that generates a log instance and returns it.
- [Modifiers](modifiers.md)
  - These log methods modify the instance and then return it.
- [Terminator](default-terminators.md)
  - These methods end the chain and finalize the log.

### Log Factory

Adze comes with a function named [`adze()`](factories.md#adze) out of the box. This function is
a [factory](factories.md) that creates a new Adze instance. Most of the time when interacting
with this library you will either use this factory directly or assign it to
a variable after calling [seal](factories.md#seal), but we'll come back to that later in the guide.

### Modifiers

Once you have an instance of Adze you can immediately [terminate](terminators) it, or you
can call certain methods that this library calls modifiers. Modifiers are
methods on an Adze log instance that changes its behavior. For example, if
you wanted to add a performance timestamp to your log you would use the
`timeNow` modifier.

```typescript
adze().timeNow.log('This is the time from pageload.');
```

And it would output like this:

![Adze log with time now modifier preview](./examples/modifier-example.png)

### Terminator

In our [Modifiers](modifiers) example code above, you can see we ended our
chain with [`log()`](default-terminators.md#log). The log method is one of the eight [default log terminators](default-terminators.md).
The library also comes with [other special terminators](other-terminators.md) like
[custom](other-terminators.md#custom). A log method is considered a terminator when it
ends your log chain and returns a [terminated log object](data.md#terminated-log-object).

## Common Usage

Most of the time when you are using a logging library you will want to configure a logging instance once and then use it throughout your codebase. This is done with the [seal factory](factories.md#seal). When your configuration is sealed a new log factory is returned. All subsequent logs generated from that factory will inherit the configuration you sealed.

### Example

```javascript
// ----- setup.js ----- //
import { adze, createShed } from 'adze';

/* We'll create a Shed to enable labels and counting
   for our example. */
createShed();

// Let's create an Adze configuration
const cfg = {
  log_level: 1,
};

// Now we'll create a new factory using seal
export const log = adze(cfg).label('foo').count.seal();

// ----- elsewhere.js ----- //
import { log } from '~/setup.js';

// And now we can create new logs using our new factory
log().error('An error occurred! Oh no!');
log().error('Another error occurred! Quick! Help!');
log().log("I won't display because my log level is too high.");
```

### Output

![common usage example with seal](./examples/common-usage-example.png)

![common usage terminal example with seal](./examples/common-usage-terminal-example.png)

Commit message:

Clarified documentation around bundling and added some more depth of explanation to the Adze Concepts page to explain some of the architectural decisions of the library.

docs/guide/adze-concepts.md, after:

# Adze Concepts

Adze as a library has a few core goals it attempts to meet. The first goal is to provide an API that wraps, extends, or replicates all of the functionality of the standard [Console API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console).

The second goal of the Adze project is to give you a natural log writing experience that doesn't feel too different from the standard. To make the experience of using Adze feel natural, Adze provides a chainable API that is similar to the standard `console.log()` API.

Lastly, most other libraries **do too much**. Adze seeks to separate concerns when it comes to generating logs and transporting them to another source. Other libraries tend to try to solve both problems, but over time what ends up occurring is that the library author isn't able to predict all of the different ways someone might want to transport their log data. This ends up creating a lot of bloat in the library. You end up with support for transports you may never use. The library's configuration also ends up becoming a mess to support all of these different transports.

Adze rejects the idea of coupling the log inputs with transport outputs which is why the core library only offers [listeners](shed-concepts.md#listeners) as a way of collecting log data. With access to the listeners the end user can harvest the desired data and do with it as they please. However, we also understand it's nice to have an out-of-the-box solution for transports. Over time we hope to provide some secondary packages that can be installed along side of Adze to provide some simple transport options.

## Lifecycle

Let's take a look under the hood to see how the Adze architecture enables its API.
_Please keep in mind this diagram is not exhaustive._

![Lifecycle Diagram of Adze Logs](./assets/basic-architecture.svg)

## The Log Chain

As you can see in the diagram, a log chain is made up of three parts:

- [Log Factory](factories.md)
  - This is a function that generates a log instance and returns it.
- [Modifiers](modifiers.md)
  - These log methods modify the instance and then return it.
- [Terminator](default-terminators.md)
  - These methods end the chain and finalize the log.

### Log Factory

Adze comes with a function named [`adze()`](factories.md#adze) out of the box. This function is
a [factory](factories.md) that creates a new Adze instance. Most of the time when interacting
with this library you will either use this factory directly or assign it to
a variable after calling [seal](factories.md#seal), but we'll come back to that later in the guide.

### Modifiers

Once you have an instance of Adze you can immediately [terminate](terminators) it, or you
can call certain methods that this library calls modifiers. Modifiers are
methods on an Adze log instance that changes its behavior. For example, if
you wanted to add a performance timestamp to your log you would use the
`timeNow` modifier.

```typescript
adze().timeNow.log('This is the time from pageload.');
```

And it would output like this:

![Adze log with time now modifier preview](./examples/modifier-example.png)

### Terminator

In our [Modifiers](modifiers) example code above, you can see we ended our
chain with [`log()`](default-terminators.md#log). The log method is one of the eight [default log terminators](default-terminators.md).
The library also comes with [other special terminators](other-terminators.md) like
[custom](other-terminators.md#custom). A log method is considered a terminator when it
ends your log chain and returns a [terminated log object](data.md#terminated-log-object).

## Common Usage

Most of the time when you are using a logging library you will want to configure a logging instance once and then use it throughout your codebase. This is done with the [seal factory](factories.md#seal). When your configuration is sealed a new log factory is returned. All subsequent logs generated from that factory will inherit the configuration you sealed.

### Example

```javascript
// ----- setup.js ----- //
import { adze, createShed } from 'adze';

/* We'll create a Shed to enable labels and counting
   for our example. */
createShed();

// Let's create an Adze configuration
const cfg = {
  log_level: 1,
};

// Now we'll create a new factory using seal
export const log = adze(cfg).label('foo').count.seal();

// ----- elsewhere.js ----- //
import { log } from '~/setup.js';

// And now we can create new logs using our new factory
log().error('An error occurred! Oh no!');
log().error('Another error occurred! Quick! Help!');
log().log("I won't display because my log level is too high.");
```

### Output

![common usage example with seal](./examples/common-usage-example.png)

![common usage terminal example with seal](./examples/common-usage-terminal-example.png)
